# RPCC Mailing Room Optimization

***Main Questions and Approaches:***
This project started in response to the long wait times first year students encountered at the RPCC mail pickup center. In context of that, our primary goal was to identify aspects of the campus mail distribution process that could be optimized to ultimately shorten waiting times. In pursuing this question, our approach was to maximize our understanding and relevant observations of the campus mail distribution process specific to Cornell, and apply relevant knowledge from statistics and optimization/operations research literature for useful insights on the data and practical solutions we could implement. We obtained these observations by sending groups of members of the student teams to RPCC to record the experiences of the employees working at the service desk, and again to collect data of students who came to collect packages based on the variables we identified as important in understanding the process.

Before collecting this observable data, we spent time coming up with a protocol requiring at least two people that would give us relevant insight into the logistics of the queue. Ultimately, we recorded the students’ arrival times, departure times, changes in numbers of staff available, service times per request, and the type of service request (e.g. retrieving package vs. retrieving envelope vs. processing netID issue.) One team member recorded items for the left columns A-C of the google sheet primarily related to students’ arrival times. Another team member recorded the right side, columns D-G, for students’ departure times.
The general procedure the team decided on is as follows:
1. The initial number of students presented in the queue needs to be recorded when
the collection starts, and the final number of students in the queue also needs to be recorded when we finish our collection. (For example, our data starts with two students already in the line at 5 pm and ends with twelve students in the line at 7 p.m.)
2. Whenever a student enters the line, person A records down the time. Person A is also responsible for keeping track of any premature departures (i.e. quantity of students that leave the queue prematurely due to any reason.)
3. Whenever a student has their request processed, person B records down the time and notes whether the student was serving by staff #1 or staff #2. Person B also records the time it takes them to get their request fulfilled (the time between when they get to the front of the queue and when they exit the queue)
4. Person B is also responsible for keeping track of the type of the package, e.g. whether it is a package, a key, an envelope, etc.

We analyzed the package retrieval data provided by administration as well as the data we collected based on our observations of RPCC. Through our analysis of the package retrieval data, we obtained detailed frequency data that showed us each mailroom’s busiest days in the school year. Due to the large volume of frequency graphs for this analysis, they are all listed in the Appendix at the bottom of this document.
We also analyzed the data we collected by observing the queue at RPCC during a busy shift on Monday 5pm-7pm. This gave us insight into the volume and pattern of student arrival and departure activity during busy shifts. Our statistical analysis also includes other values of interest, such as the median for service time, and is shown below.
